If you’re planning a 
Tanzania safari
, there’s a good chance you hope to witness one of the world’s last great wildlife migrations — the circular trek of more than 
1.5 million wildebeest
 (plus zebra and gazelle) across the 
Serengeti
–Maasai Mara ecosystem.
This guide from 
Tanzania Safari Magic
 in Arusha focuses on the 
Serengeti chapters
 of the Great Migration: where the herds move month by month, when to book for calving or river crossings, and how to build a private itinerary that actually puts you in the right place.
  
  
Mara River crossings in northern Serengeti — typically mid-July to October — are the migration’s most dramatic spectacle.
  
Plan Your Migration Safari
  
Tell 
Our Team
 your dates and whether you want calving, Grumeti, or Mara crossings — we match camps and vehicles within 24 hours.
  
    
 Free Migration Quote
    
 WhatsApp Our Team
    
Serengeti Guide
  
  
In This Migration Guide
  
    
Quick Facts
    
Best Time to See the Migration
    
Where the Migration Happens
    
Serengeti Highlights
    
Month-by-Month Map
    
Tanzania vs Kenya
    
Why the Migration Matters
    
How to Book
    
Migration Safari Costs
    
Live Safari Packages
    
FAQs
  
Wildebeest Migration Quick Facts
  
Herd size:
 ~1.5 million wildebeest, hundreds of thousands of zebra &amp; gazelle
  
Distance:
 roughly 800 miles / 1,000 km each year
  
Driver:
 seasonal rainfall and fresh grazing
  
Calving peak:
 ~8,000 calves per day in peak southern weeks (Jan–early Mar)
  
Signature moments:
 Ndutu calving, Grumeti crossings, Mara River crossings
  
Serengeti role:
 home stage for most of the annual loop; UNESCO World Heritage (1981)
  
  
Serengeti’s short-grass plains — stage for calving and vast herd panoramas.
When Is the Best Time to See the Great Migration?
The migration is a 
year-round
 phenomenon, but the “wow” moments need the right region and month. Patterns are fairly consistent — yet rains can push herds early or late. Book the 
experience
 you want, then stay flexible on exact camp nights.
  
    
Experience
Typical months
Where in Serengeti
    
      
Calving season
Jan–Mar
Southern plains / Ndutu
      
Grumeti River crossings
May–Jun
Western Corridor
      
Mara River crossings
Jul–Oct
Northern Serengeti
      
Vast dry-season herds
Jun–Oct
Follow herds + central predators
    
  
Many travellers call July–September the classic Tanzania window: dry roads, clear game viewing, and northern crossing odds. January–February is equally special if newborns and big-cat hunts are your priority.
  
  
Massed herds on the move — the migration’s defining visual.
Where Does the Wildebeest Migration Happen?
The loop runs clockwise through 
northern Tanzania
 and 
southern Kenya
, always chasing rain. Inside Tanzania the main stage is 
Serengeti National Park
 (~14,763 km²), contiguous with Ngorongoro’s short-grass calving grounds and bordered to the north by Kenya’s Maasai Mara.
Wildebeest detect distant rainfall and learn approximate routes in their first year — which is why the path shifts slightly each season even though the overall circle endures.
Serengeti Migration Highlights
1. Calving on the Ndutu &amp; southern plains
Nutrient-rich volcanic soils (linked to the ancient Ngorongoro eruptions) feed mineral-rich grass. Mothers produce rich milk; calves stand within minutes. Predators concentrate on the nursery — intense for photographers.
2. Grumeti River crossings
Western Corridor crossings (often May–June) bring crocodile drama with fewer vehicles than the Mara peak. A smart pick for guests who want action without peak-season northern rates.
3. Mara River crossings
The iconic leap: strong currents, Nile crocodiles, and tens of thousands of animals choosing when to cross. From the Tanzania side you base in northern Serengeti camps near the river — book early for July–October.
  
  
Zebra travel with the wildebeest — striping the plains beside the herds.
Month-by-Month Serengeti Migration Map
  
    
Month
Where herds typically are
What you’ll notice
    
      
Dec–Mar
South / Ndutu short-grass plains
Calving peak Jan–Feb; predator theatre
      
Apr–May
Moving west &amp; through central routes
Long rains; lush landscapes
      
May–Jun
Western Corridor / Grumeti
River crossings begin
      
Jul–Oct
Northern Serengeti (↔ Mara)
Mara River crossings; dry-season clarity
      
Nov
Pushing south again
Short rains; herds return toward Ndutu
    
  
Central 
Seronera
 remains excellent for lions, leopards, and cheetahs even when mega-herds are elsewhere — a reliable backbone for any Serengeti safari.
Is Tanzania or Kenya Better for the Great Migration?
Both work. Tanzania usually has the edge for a full migration story:
  
Herds spend most of the year in Tanzania
  
Calving and Grumeti crossings are Tanzania-only chapters
  
Northern Serengeti Mara crossings often feel less congested than the Mara Reserve peak
  
Easy combination with 
Ngorongoro Crater
 on the same circuit from Arusha
Kenya wins on shorter road access from Nairobi and a compact reserve. If your trip already centers on northern Tanzania parks, Serengeti is the natural migration base.
The Migration’s Role in the Serengeti Ecosystem
Wildebeest are the Serengeti’s gardeners — grazing, trampling, and fertilizing on a massive scale, reducing fuel for catastrophic fires and feeding an extraordinary predator community (lions, hyenas, cheetahs, crocodiles, and more). Tourism revenue funds anti-poaching and habitat protection that keep the route open for future generations.
  
  
Balloon safaris add a sunrise perspective over plains that may hold migrating herds.
How to Book a Wildebeest Migration Safari
  
Choose your highlight
 — calving, Grumeti, or Mara crossings
  
Lock the right region
 — south, west, or north Serengeti camps
  
Add buffer nights
 — herds don’t keep calendars
  
Decide drive-in vs fly-in
 — north is far by road; flights save time
  
Combine parks
 — Ngorongoro + Serengeti remains the classic pairing
Share your dates on our 
booking form
 or WhatsApp — we reply with lodge options and a clear inclusions list.
How Much Does a Migration Safari Cost?
Expect private mid-range northern circuit rates often around the mid-hundreds of USD per person per day; luxury camps and peak northern crossing weeks cost more. Park fees, concession fees, and balloon flights are itemized on quotes. Full ranges: 
Tanzania safari cost 2026
.
Migration Safari FAQs
  ${FAQS.map((f, i) => `
    
      
${f.q}
      
${f.a}
    
`).join('')}
  
Ready for the Serengeti Migration?
  
Licensed local operator · Our Team · Arusha, Tanzania
  
    
Book / Free Quote
    
Serengeti Guide
    
Best Time
    
All Packages