Serengeti National Park
 is Tanzania’s flagship safari landscape — vast savannah, legendary predator density, and the stage for most of the 
Great Wildebeest Migration
 each year.
This guide from 
Tanzania Safari Magic
 (Our Team in Arusha) helps you choose regions, months, and nights wisely: wildlife highlights, climate, best time, how long to stay, Seronera vs Ndutu vs west vs north, balloon safaris, booking, costs, and where to sleep by sector. For the full trip framework, see our 
Tanzania safari guide
.
  
  
Serengeti’s open plains — home to big cats, mega-herds, and some of Africa’s finest game drives.
  
Plan Your Serengeti Safari
  
Tell 
Our Team
 your dates and whether you want migration focus or classic predator days — we match camps and vehicles, usually within 24 hours.
  
    
 Free Serengeti Quote
    
 WhatsApp Our Team
    
Serengeti Destination
  
  
In This Serengeti Guide
  
    
About Serengeti National Park
    
Why the Serengeti Is Famous
    
Great Migration Overview
    
Wildlife Beyond the Herds
    
Climate
    
Best Time to Visit
    
How Many Days Do You Need?
    
Safari Regions: Central, Ndutu, West, North
    
Hot Air Balloon Safaris
    
How to Book
    
Prices &amp; Cost Context
    
Where to Stay by Region
    
Safari Packages
    
FAQs
  
About Serengeti National Park
Covering roughly 14,763 km² in northern Tanzania, the Serengeti is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and the core of a larger ecosystem that links to the 
Ngorongoro
 short-grass plains and, across the border, Kenya’s Maasai Mara. From Arusha, guests typically drive the northern circuit or fly into seasonal airstrips to save road time.
I’m 
John Raphael Shayo
. With Our Team at Tanzania Safari Magic, we treat Serengeti as a 
region choice
 problem first — put your nights where the season is strongest, then add 
Ngorongoro Crater
 or 
Tarangire
 around that backbone.
Why the Serengeti Is Famous
  
Scale
 — horizons that feel endless, not a compact reserve loop
  
Predator density
 — lions, leopards, cheetahs, and hyenas thrive on abundant prey
  
Migration theatre
 — calving, river crossings, and massed herds across months
  
Year-round safari quality
 — even when mega-herds are elsewhere, central plains deliver cats
It is also the emotional centre of many first Tanzania trips — which is why we protect enough Serengeti nights instead of treating the park as a one-night drive-through.
  
  
Zebra move with wildebeest across the plains — a signature Serengeti scene in migration months.
Great Migration Overview
More than a million wildebeest, plus zebra and gazelle, follow rain and grass in a roughly circular annual loop. There is no single “migration month” — there are 
experiences
:
  
Calving (Jan–Mar)
 — southern plains / Ndutu
  
Grumeti crossings (May–Jun)
 — western corridor
  
Mara River crossings (Jul–Oct)
 — northern Serengeti
For month-by-month detail, herd maps, and Tanzania vs Kenya context, read our dedicated 
Great Wildebeest Migration safari guide
.
  
  
Northern Serengeti river-crossing season — typically mid-July through October, timing varies with rains.
Wildlife Beyond the Herds
Even without mega-herds in view, Serengeti ranks among Africa’s great Big Five destinations. Central 
Seronera
 is renowned for lions and leopards along riverine strips; cheetahs favour open plains; elephants, buffalo, giraffe, and huge bird lists fill every game-drive day.
Black rhino are present but scarce — many guests who want a stronger rhino chance pair Serengeti with a 
Ngorongoro Crater
 day.
Climate
Serengeti weather follows the northern Tanzania pattern: a long dry season (roughly June–October), short rains around November–December, a short dry / green period in January–February, and long rains roughly March–May. Mornings can be cool in open vehicles; midday sun is strong on the plains.
  
    
Season
Conditions
Safari note
    
      
Jun–Oct
Dry, dusty, clear viewing
Peak demand; northern crossings
      
Nov–Dec
Short rains, dramatic skies
Good value; herds shifting south
      
Jan–Feb
Often pleasant; green flush
Calving drama in the south
      
Mar–May
Long rains; lush landscapes
Fewer crowds; some muddy roads
    
  
Best Time to Visit the Serengeti
Match the month to your priority: dry-season clarity and northern crossings, or green-season calving and photography. For country-wide timing (including beach add-ons), see 
best time to visit Tanzania
. Migration specialists should also read the 
migration guide
.
  
Tell us your month — we’ll recommend the right Serengeti sector.
  
Get Sector Advice
How Many Days Do You Need?
  
2 nights
 — brief introduction only; easy to feel rushed
  
3 nights
 — solid minimum for central Serengeti
  
4–5 nights
 — migration focus or split regions (e.g. central + north)
  
Inside 7–9 day circuits
 — our most common private designs from Arusha
Compare live options on 
safari packages
 or shared departures on 
group safaris
.
Safari Regions: Central, Ndutu, West, North
  
    
Region
Best for
Typical months
    
      
Central (Seronera)
Lions, leopards, year-round backbone
Any month
      
South / Ndutu
Calving, predator hunts, short-grass plains
Dec–Mar
      
Western Corridor
Grumeti crossings, riverine drama
May–Jun
      
Northern Serengeti
Mara River crossings, far-north wilderness
Jul–Oct
    
  
Destination hub: 
Serengeti National Park
. Many itineraries also include 
Arusha National Park
 as an easy first or last day near town.
Hot Air Balloon Safaris
Balloon flights typically launch at dawn over selected Serengeti sectors when weather allows, followed by a bush breakfast. They are optional, bookable in advance through Our Team, and weather can cancel on the day — we plan backup game-drive mornings so the day is never wasted.
How to Book a Serengeti Safari
  
Choose your highlight (cats, calving, or river crossings)
  
Lock region and nights before peak camps sell out
  
Decide drive-in vs fly-in (north is far by road)
  
Add Ngorongoro, Tarangire, or 
Zanzibar
 beach
  
Confirm inclusions — park fees, meals, balloon if requested
Book via our 
online form
 or WhatsApp. Local Arusha planning keeps pricing clearer than opaque overseas markups.
Prices &amp; Cost Context
Private mid-range Serengeti nights sit inside typical northern-circuit daily rates — often mid-hundreds of USD per person per day all-in, with luxury camps and peak northern crossing weeks higher. Fly-in segments and balloons raise the total.
Full budget-to-luxury breakdown: 
Tanzania Safari Cost 2026
.
Where to Stay by Region
  
Seronera / central
 — lodges and tented camps near predator hotspots; ideal year-round base
  
Ndutu / south
 — seasonal camps for calving (often NCA / Ndutu area logistics)
  
Western corridor
 — river-oriented camps for Grumeti season
  
North
 — Kogatende / Lamai-area style access for Mara crossings; book early
After Serengeti, beach time on 
Zanzibar
 is the classic unwind — details in our 
Zanzibar guide
. Crater pairing: 
Ngorongoro Crater guide
.
Serengeti National Park FAQs
  ${FAQS.map((f, i) => `
    
      
${f.q}
      
${f.a}
    
`).join('')}
  
Ready for the Serengeti with Our Team?
  
Licensed local operator · John Raphael Shayo &amp; team · Arusha, Tanzania · WhatsApp +255 695 108 009
  
    
Book / Free Quote
    
 WhatsApp Our Team
    
All Safari Packages